# Inspect a project

On the "My projects" page, you can find projects' cards. 

## Project card
A project card shows 
- the Technical Debt resulting from the latest analysis. 
  - TD index: the non-normalized amount of the TD generated by the architectural smells instances detected in the project. The higher the value, the more TD.
  - TD density: The TD Index divided by the total lines of code analyzed by Arcan (i.e. normalization). This value is used to calculate the TD score.
  - TD score: the percentile of the TD density for a benchmark of other systems analyzed by Arcan. The higher the value, the lower the TD density and the better the system's quality. Example: 75 TD score = system has lower TD density than 75% of the systems in the benchmark.
  - TD rating: categorizes the TD score ranges into ranked categories ranging from A to F, with F being the worst possible rate (high accumulation of technical debt).
- The trend of Technical Debt over time (green line).
- The number of smells resulting from the latest analysis.
- The number of lines of code (LOC) resulting from the latest analysis.

Click on "INSPECT" or on the project's name to inspect the analysis results in detail.

## Overview page

This page offers an overview of the analysed project's overall quality and Technical Debt.

- Technical Debt Dispersion
- Technical Debt Spread
- Technical Debt
- Design Complexity
- Rigidity
- Technical Debt Evolution

## Assessment page

The table shows the list of architectural smells and some of their characteristics. 

Each row contains the data of a single instance of Architectural Smell.

Click on the name of a column to sort by it.

Table description:
- ID:
- Smell Type:
- Tech debt index:
- Severity
- Affected type
- Affected Elements
- Size

Click the arrow on the left to expand the row. Here you can find information about the detection rule applied and the values of the parameters that triggered the smell detection.

### Architectural smell graph page

Click on the pink button with the smell ID to open the graph representation of the Architectural Smell.

Click either an edge or a node to show the source code.

At the top-left of the page, you can find the controls of the graph.

1. Reload graph layout
2. Centre graph
3. Turn zoom on/off

At the top-right of the page, you can find additional controls for graph exploration.

4. Change the layout of the graph
5. Insert the name of a unit or container to quickly find it in the graph.


## Comprehension page

### Graph settings

On this page, you can select the specific parts of code that you want to plot in the graph. Use SELECT ALL and UNSELECT ALL to select or unselect all the project's components quickly.

You can choose the types of components and dependencies to display on the right. 

Once the configuration is set up, click on the "Graph" tab to show the graph.

### Graph

This page offers a high-level representation of the software architecture of the project under analysis. Depending on the settings you choose, you can produce different *architectural views*.

Use ctrl + left mouse click to select and drag portions of graph.

At the top-left of the page, you can find the controls of the graph.

1. Reload graph layout
2. Centre graph
3. Turn zoom on/off

### Architectural views

We recommend the following settings instructions to generate a set of Architectural Views.

**Project tree**
Useful to investigate how the project’s containers are nested one inside the other.

- Graph settings
- Graph layout: KLAY


**Project container dependencies**
Useful to investigate the dependencies between different project’s containers.

- Graph settings
- Graph layout: GRID

**Project unit hierarchies**
Useful to investigate how the project’s containers are nested one inside the other.

- Graph settings
- Graph layout: KLAY

**Project unit usage**
Useful to identify the most used units of the project.

- Graph settings
- Graph layout: CONCENTRIC

